---
title: The difficulties of choosing a startup idea
description: A note on the challenges faced when there are too many options.
tags: ['startups', 'startup-ideas']
publishedAt: 2025-10-25
updatedAt: 2025-10-25
---

_Note: this piece has no solution (yet)._

Startup ideas are everywhere. Not many days go past where my mind does not
conjure another possibly “brilliant” startup idea, which I scramble to write
down in a google doc or napkin. This has lasted many years, and at one point I
even practiced this, by trying to force myself to formulate ideas whilst walking
around, by picking out an item and thinking how it can be improved. A sort of
silicon valley tech bro version of
[“I spy”](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I_spy). Me and a friend would play “app
of the day”, a game where we shared an app idea each day about a problem we had
noticed in the world around us. The game had three rules; the first rule is
[you do not talk about “app of the day”](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fight_Club),
the second rule is you cannot mention this already exists and the final rule is
no negativity allowed.

Now I am in a different position, I have recently exited my
[first startup](https://airgrid.io/) and am deciding what to build next. The
first 3 months were pure creative bliss. I decided rather than worrying too much
about starting something right away I would spend time to feel the grain of the
material, basically coding up small POCs of some of my most promising google doc
and napkin concepts. No investors, no clients, no one to manage, just me and the
IDE, it has been a truly beautiful period of my working life and one that I feel
extremely privileged to have been able to experience.

However in an abrupt shift in mental state, my mind has decided that dithering
time is over and we must begin to accrue value in a single concept. The AI boom
is here and we must ride it, or be left behind. Yet picking an idea has proven
to be extremely difficult as a second time founder. The first time round, as
soon as I had something semi-plausible and a few angels willing to throw me a
term sheet, I was off! Only to pivot 3 months later after realising I forgot to
check if the market required my invention. Being much older and hopefully a
little wiser seems to be slowing down the selection process due to too much
knowledge of the risks & [schlep](https://paulgraham.com/schlep.html) a startup
can face. Aside from the external risk, there is also the even more pressing
question of what one wants to spend their time on. I should default to an
industry I know, but have interests in other industries which are more
beneficial for humankind. I should build an application layer business, but have
more interest in the lower-levels of the technology stack. Should I raise VC
money or launch a bootstrapped business. And many more such tradeoffs…

So as noted at the beginning, sadly this piece does not yet yield an answer, but
I hope a follow up in the coming weeks will. I am rectifying some mistakes made
over the past 3 months by speaking to founders, investors and potential
customers. Yet the final plunge to take will be a lonely endeavour but one for
which I am excited, there is nothing better than the new startup smell. A newly
minted domain name, logo and team members, everyone excited to write code to
ship products that people will love. Focusing on those moments will hopefully
push the mind to settle on the realities of the tradeoffs and take the final
step into the unknown.

_If you have faced or are facing a similar situation drop me a line!_
